A description of the problem and a discussion of the background
"La Milonguita" is a chain of restaurants located in Buenos Aires, Argentina. The chain offers typical Argentina foods that draw heavy influences of Spain and Italy, and has indigenous ingredients too. The owners of this restaurants wants to expand their chain to Europe and they are very interested in establish a new restaurant in Madrid, Spain.  Madrid is a big city with more than 3 million inhabitants and a metropolitan area population of about 6.5 millions. It is composed by more than one hundred neighborhoods, with different characteristics. In order to get directions about where to establish their first restaurant in Madrid, the owners of "La Milonguita" has asked us to do an study of different places of the city.   Marketing consultants has determined that we must pay special attention to entertainment services, because they are considered attractive to potential customers. We also must take into account other food services offerings that could be considered in some cases rivalry or, in other cases, complementary to an Argentinian Restaurant. In this project, we will obtain information of the neighborhoods and make recommendations about best places to expand the chain of restaurants. The report and recommendations will be provided to owner of "La Milonguita".
A description of the data and how it will be used to solve the problem
Required data will be gathered from various sources. Madrid information, including districts and neighborhoods will be obtained from Wikipedia: [Madrid](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Madrid). For recommending places to establish the restaurant, we will segment Madrid into various neighborhoods. Full list of neighborhoods can be obtained from Wikipedia Madrid information, but only their names. They must be geolocated in order to use Foursquare services for obtaining venues.  For geolocation of neighborhoods _Python geocorder_ will be used.
Every neighborhood obtained will be geolocated using python geocoder package, using neighborhood name plus city and country.Geocoder returns latitude and longitude information for every neighborhood center, then it will be used as main Foursquare input. In order to obtain venues and their categories we will use [FOURSQUARE](https://foursquare.com/). Using services provided by Foursquare we can obtain venues for every neighborhood. Such services requires as input geolocalization, it means the latitude and longitude obtained in previously described step.  
  A Jupyter Notebook will be developed in order to process data and segment the neighborhoods.
Following steps will be implemented:
1. Build neighborhoods list: A list of districts is obtained from Madrid Wikipedia page. That list contains the names of the neighborhoods for every district. As output a dataset containing a list of _"district,neighborhood"_ will be built.
 2. Neighborhoods geolocation: Every element in the neighborhoods dataset is geolocated using _Python Geolocator_ and two columns will be updated containing latitude and longitude for each disctrict, neighborhood. The geolocator service has some problems, many times gives time out error, for this reason in this step the information obtained is saved in a text file in CSV format.  Therefore,  this step can be run many times, invoking geolocator only for missing data (timed out errors in previous executions). After various executions all the neighborhoods geolocation is obtained and we can use the text file.
  
  
3. Venues compilation: As next step, Foursquare services are used for obtaining venues for every neighborhood. The output is a new dataset with many records for every neighborhood containing the venues found for everyone of them.  
A free Foursquare service with limited count of calls is used. In order to minimize the usage of Foursquare, the information is saved in a text (CSV) file. It's supposed that the information gathered doesn't change in short period of time (some hours). When the analysis must be continued for long period (many hours or next day) just deleting the generated text file will force to call Foursquae services again, refreshing the information.
4. Neighborhoods segmentation: The problem in hand is a case of unsupervised segmentation and, from the possible machine learning algorithms, K-means was chosen.     - Taking in account that the venues information obtained from Foursquare is categorical, it must be previously processed in order to be handled by K-means algorithm. For this _"pandas.get_dummies"_ is used for dummies variables.
    - The list of dummy variables obtained are then grouped as features of every neighborhood.
    - After executing K-means algorithm the "Elbow Curve" it's ploted in order to obtain the _best K_. Analyzing the change in the slope of the curve, it's determined that K=10 is a good value.
    - K-means algorithm is executed.
    - Next step is build the segmentation dataframe, composed of the top venues for every neighborhood plus a segment label determined by K-means. 
5. Segments analysis: Every segment is printed individually, were different charateristics can be observed for each group.  

Analysis

The analysis provided the following clusters.

Cluster 1: A big cluster with dominant presence of Spanish Restaurants. Despite having many interesting places, too many rivalry exists in this cluster. Therefore it doesn't appear to be the best option.

Cluster 3, 4, 5 and 8: Clustering algorithm produces just one record for each one. However, we don’t have enough information to make a decision.

Cluster 2, 7 and 10: These clusters have a variety of restaurants, Spanish, tapas, Chinese and Greek. However, lack of entertainments makes them not much interesting for us.  

Cluster 9: This cluster has a variety of restaurants, Spanish, Chinese, French, Greek and fast food. In addition, there are bars and theaters. This is an interesting option to be considered.Cluster 6: It is a medium sized cluster. It has Spanish Restaurants, Fast Foods and Pizza shops. There are Theaters and Soccer Fields. Soccer is a sport highly related to Argentina. This cluster is a very interesting option.

Discussion

The objective of this project is to find suitable locations in Madrid City for establishing the first restaurant.
Main requirements are that other kind of restaurants exists and also entertainments for potential customers.
Applying a given machine learning clustering algorithm was possible to segment neighborhoods based on their venues and, most important, found a group of them that have high potential.

Conclusion

A group of eleven neighborhood has been selected from more that on hundred.
These neighborhoods have Spanish Restaurants, Fast Foods and Pizza, theaters and soccer fields.
It is suggested that one of these clusters should be target to start the new restaurant.




